Update `atmos` "deps" calculation. Update docs. (#256)
cloudposse/atmos: website/docs/core-concepts/components/describe-components.md

---
title: Describe Components
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Describing
description: Describe components to view the fully deep-merged configuration
id: describing
---

Describing components is helpful to understand what the final, fully computed and deep-merged configuration of a component will look like across any
number of Stacks. The more [DRY a configuration is due to imports](core-concepts/stacks/imports), the
more [derived the configuration is due to inheritance](/core-concepts/components/inheritance), the harder it may be to understand what the final
stack configuration will be.

For example, if we wanted to understand what the final configuration looks like for a "vpc" running in the "production" stack, we could do that by
calling the [`atmos describe components`](/cli/commands/describe/component) command to view the YAML output.

For more powerful filtering options, consider [describing stacks](/core-concepts/stacks/describing) instead.

> The other helpful use-case for describing stacks is when developing polices for [validation](/core-concepts/components/validation of Stacks and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other helpful use-case for describing stacks is when developing polices for [validation](/core-concepts/components/validation) of Stacks and
```

> Components. OPA policies can enforce what is or is not permitted. Literally anything in the entire YAML output can be validated using policies that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Components. OPA policies can enforce what is or is not permitted. Everything in the YAML output can be validated using policies that
```
